In this exercise, we are going to
implement both one way and mutual TLS.
But first we're going to
look at some CORS settings.
So let's set everything up first by
running lab secure-tls start script.
This deploys the
multi-component equation solver
with the solver project, multiplier
and the adder microservices in DO378/
labs/secure-tls/ directory.
We have a look at the
other artifacts here.
We have a startup script that
starts all the services up
and waits for a ENTER to be
pressed before it Terminates.
We have some additional
certificate management scripts
that we will be using
throughout the exercise.
And then there's an index.html file,
which is actually the frontend
to the solver application.
So let's run the start script first,
that starts all the three components up.
And once everything starts up,
we will go over to
another terminal window because the
first one is blocked and have a look at
the index.html file that is the frontend
to the Quarkus Solver application.
In addition to having some cascading
style sheets in the header,
we can see that it's a
jquery application and that
it actually loads or has a
function called solveForm
that upon clicking of the
button to submit the equation,
sends the term literally to the
localhost 8080 endpoint solver,
which is where the solver
applications is actually waiting.
Now, let's have a look at how that works.
Opening it in a browser window,
entering the equation and
clicking Solve, we get an ERROR.
It says failed to connect to servers.
So if we press F 12 or we
go to the menu and select
Developer Tools and open
the Web Developer Console,
we can see that in the
Console tab there is
a Cross-Origin Request Blocked error that
reports that, The Same Origin Policy
disallows reading the remote
resource at localhost:8080
because the course control allow origin
header is missing from the server.
So the browser is refusing
to work with the server.
The server is actually
blocking the communication.
What we are going to do next
is in the solver application,
we are going to change the
application.properties file,
and we will simply add
quarkus.http.cors set to true.
Repeating that operation we will get
the Result of 23, which is correct.
So we have solved the CORS problem.
Now, let's go ahead and
generate some keys.
The genkeys script is actually script that
will generate key stores for all 3
microservices. We will only be protecting
the solver application using TLS now.
So we will use the other 2
keystores created by this script later.
But let's run the script
getting 3 keystores
and configure the solvers application.properties to allow us to use HTTPS.
What we are adding is 3 options,
quarkus.http.ssl-port set to 8443,
and then quarkus.http.ssl
certificate.key-store-file set
to solver.keystore
this is where the script put it
at the base directory in the project,
next to pom.xml for example.
And because the application is
executed from the target directory,
we need to point to one level up
to be able to load it from the
file system while it's running.
Also, the certificate.key-store-password
is set to
redhat such that the keystore
can be unlocked and the
certificate can be loaded.
Right!
We have configured the solver to
allow secure communications.
So if we restart
all the applications and go
over to the other terminal,
I was a little bit early here,
if we go and send an https request
to port 8443 with an
equation in the expression,
curl does complain that it is
a self signed certificate
that the server returns.
But if we get beyond this problem
and invoke curl with -k,
we do get a response from port
8443 using the https protocol.
If we have a look at the
certificate details,
we can see that the subject is here,
the issuer is also here
and the HTTPS session was established.
There we go.
Alright. Now let us configure mutual TLS,
because now we are just talking to the
solver application using SSL, right?
But the internal communication between
the microservices is still plain text.
So we are going to use
the script number 2 export-certs
to export the certificates
from the keystore
and that's what it does basically.
Then we are going to use the script 3,
gentrust to use
the just exported certificates to
create trust stores for
each of those services.
Now, remember that in terms
of communication paths,
solver needs to be able to communicate
to both adder and multiplier,
whereas the other 2 only need to
be able to communicate to solver.
So that's why the gentrust script
imports the adder certificate
into solver trust store,
the multiplier certificate
and then the solver certificate into
adders and multipliers trust store.
When we run it, it actually configures
those files with the password of
redhat for all of them, of course.
Now if we configure the solvers
application.properties
first, to enable mutual TLS,
we can see that first of all,
the AdderService configuration
was switched from plain text on
port 8081 to https on port 8444.
We have added the trustStore
for the client to the AdderService,
to the solver.truststore
which contains the adder certificate.
And we have also added the
keystore for the adder client to
present the solvers certificate to the
AdderService whenever you connect.
Same for the MultiplierService,
we reconfigure it from plain text on
port 8082 to https on port 8445
and we have enabled the
truststore and keystore
for the MultiplierService client as well.
What we also had to add was, so the
key-store configuration was already there,
the key-store file and the password word is
specified from the previous
step in the exercise.
But what we had to add was the
trust-store configuration.
So and the fact that the client
authentication is now required.
So if anyone contacts
the sovler on port 8443,
they will have to provide
their certificate.
We are going to do the same
only in a little bit of
a smaller extent to the
adder microservice.
So we will be basically adding
the configuration for
the solver client using the adder.truststore and the adder.keystore
for the client to be able to trust
the solver and to be able
to present the adders
public key. We are also
configuring ssl on port 8444
and of course, as far as the
server-side of the adder is concerned,
not where it's acting as a client,
but where it's acting as a server,
the situation is the same.
So we set up a key-store
file and a trust-store file
and we require client authentication
and disable any sort of
plain text requests.
The same configuration steps are
then performed to the multiplier.
So we switch from port 8080 to 8443,
configure the key-store and trust-store
for the solver client,
switch the ssl.port to 8445
and configure the key-store and trust-store for the server on port 8445,
requiring client authentication and
disabling any plain text requests.
So we are now restarting the services
as they start up.
You can switch back to the next tab
and have a look at what's going on
if we send an https request to solver.
We get a response saying there's an error.
I'm sorry, but you provided
a bad certificate.
This is because right now with
this change of configuration,
solver requires us to authenticate
using an SSL certificate
on port 8443
and that is also why we
left port 8080 open,
but only on the solver
microservice, right?
So if we connect on port 8080
using http protocol, not https,
we do get a response which proves
that the solver microservice is
successfully communicating
to both multiplier
and adder using mutual TLS authentication.
And because those two
recursively invoke solver back,
we have proved that those two can also use
mutual TLS authentication with the solver.
That concludes the exercise.
So after we run lab secure-tls finish script,
and potentially also pressing ENTER to
terminate Quarkuses in the other
window where we were running them.
This is it, join us
in the next video, where we are going
to talk about authentication.